thank you all for coming to our advanced
quicktime programming techniques topic
so advanced we brought our own exer
which all our demos will not be running
on the xserve in fact what we're going
to be talking about today is a topic
that a lot of people find pretty
important one is thread safety at multi
threading in quicktime a second topic
we're going to cover is some integration
we've done in QuickTime 64 and Panther
for color sink and lastly we'll be
talking about the complicated topic of
audio video startups inc and just an
overview of some of the technology
frameworks will cover today a quick time
obviously color sync quartz quartz 2d
and core services for some of our belief
reading api and now I'd like to
introduce Sam bushel to come and talk
about multi-threading thanks Tim good
afternoon I think I could get him
troubles up with my water bottle on that
thing quick slant heritage on Mac OS
version 6 7 8 and 9 meant that many of
its api's are designed to be run from a
single thread macular sin brings us not
only not multiprocessing the ability to
do multiple things in multiple
applications at once but also it removes
some of the traditional limitations on
what we could do with multiple threads
within an application I want to talk
about some of the work we've been doing
inside quick time to allow to use use
multi-threading with the QuickTime ap is
to make your application more responsive
and more powerful first let's talk about
the basic problem is single froze ap I'd
if everything we're instantaneous no one
would care will be okay if everything
had to run from the same thread but many
common operations are slow and it's a
bad user experience when these slow
operations delay application
responsiveness it's inconvenient to
users when they can't export to movies
at once or export a movie and play a
movie at the same time so from our
perspective the urgent need is to allow
developers to move these slow jobs to
background threads so they can free up
the main thread to
to provide a responsive user interface
in Panther the particular operations we
have in mind are still image import and
export opening movies rendering movies
re compressing movies exporting movies
but in Panther we are not changing the
way that movies are played back playback
has already been is already implemented
in a way that avoids blocking the user
interface it's been that way since
QuickTime 10 it's the other these other
operations that have become you I hogs
we will make these things safe to
perform on background threads so in
pants of the model we're aiming for is
to allow independent threads to work on
disjoint sets of QuickTime objects this
is the most important thing I want you
to take away from from my session today
dis joined us if one thread has its set
of QuickTime objects and another thread
has its own set of quick two objects and
never the twain shall meet everything's
going to be fine but we're not making it
safe for two threads to access the same
objects simultaneously if two threads
need to manipulate the same object then
those threads need to perform some kind
of negotiation or locking around this
now this is no different from any
unprotected data structure you might
implement in your own code you need to
have some kind of thread protection
before you allow simultaneous access the
exception to the destroying this rule
arrives with the file system the file
system has always been designed to allow
multiple readers of the file and so in
order to understand this this slide we
need to make the distinction between a
movie which is a data structure in
memory with a capital m and a movie file
which sits out on a disk somewhere and
may or may not be a QuickTime movie that
maybe is some other for the format
that's been imported and is viewed as a
quicktime movie it's okay for two
threads to each have their own movie
data structure that points to the same
movie file and okay for them to be
displaying or rendering different parts
of that movie
same time and moving around it male may
not be okay for one of those threads to
be modifying that file obviously but
that's actually come as no surprise so
let me repeat this really important
point again don't let two threads work
on the same QuickTime object at once
it's you as the developer who has
responsibility for making sure that this
is the case it's also the developers
responsibility to avoid going creating a
dialogue or a window in a background
thread if you go and look in the headers
you'll see that the human interface
toolbox is not thread-safe it's the main
run Luke the receives event with weather
in carbon or cocoa you I needs to
basically stay in the main thread one
more restriction this stuff is only
going to be safe to do from from threads
in Panther even if you install a
spanking new version of quicktime on
jaguar you're still not going to get
these thread safety improvements why not
because there's a lot of plumbing
underneath quicktime that we rely on a
lot of api's and core services that have
been improved not just to enable the
stuff and that stuff is only available
on Panther so now that I'm done telling
you about all these restrictions it's
over to Tim to show you how great it is
because it is substantially nice to be
able to run the stuff from multiple
threads great thank you so I have three
applications i'm going to show you demos
up and they're going to be available on
the Apple Developer connection website
under the QuickTime etc so WWDC will put
up some URLs at the end so what we did
was we wanted to be able to make some
clear applications that showed not only
the code that you need to do to make
your applications thread safe but also
demonstrate visually so that people can
understand exactly what we're trying to
enable the first application thread
tester pro is basically trying to
emulate what finder or I photo would be
doing in the preview mode of viewing
graphics important images and that's
what this demo is showing so what I've
done is I've opened a window and I'm
going to open a second window off this
application and before i go on i'm going
to set each window to use the main
thread as opposed to the p thread so
right now there's one thread in this
application that serves both windows and
then I'm going to select some images to
preview so I'm going to pick some
smaller images that I took when I was on
vacation in Southeast Asia far too long
ago and i'm going to select some larger
images in this other one and while that
one's loading you can see I can
basically load up these images and it's
fairly responsive but when I tell it to
autorun which is basically going through
every image and I'll tell this one to
autorun now these large images are what
effectively are doing they're blocking
the other thread from processing that
image because the images in the front
window are much larger they take longer
to decode and not only is that going on
but you can see that the UI is pretty
non-responsive I can't really click it's
kind of like waiting for things to get
done so let me stop that and again even
stopping takes a little bit of time so
just to give you an idea this is running
on a dual 14 2 g 4 so what I'm going to
do now is I'm going to switch these
applications to each use their own
pthread worker thread so now the
operations in the UI are still going to
be it's going to be basically using a
background thread to decompress the
image and when that image is
decompressed it's going to transfer it
and copy it to the display done in the
foot in the main thread so the main
threads doing all the display work but
the background thread is doing the
decompression so again I'm going to do
the autorun and now i'm going to start
this one you can see the first changes
as i do the large images the background
images keep on going that's because
there is a multi processing machine at
each has their own thread so it's
distributing the work that's one
advantage of using the thread safe
multithreading quick time the second
thing is you can see that the UI is very
responsive even though it's doing work I
can click and accepts the clicks I can
go to the menus etc and I can stop it so
that is the first demo I wanted to show
that's graphics and quarters using the
same application doing two sets of
images on two different threads
so the second demo on showing is that
we've done the same work for graphics
exporters one thing that you'll see here
is that in the application as a menu
that says only use thread-safe
components so we're able to detect
through some techniques and we'll talk
about which components are thread safe
in the OS and here I'm going to limit to
the ones that are and again I'm going to
switch to the main thread and select a
folder export file so now it's loaded in
a bunch of images and I'm going to do
the same autorun it's created a folder
basically spewing these all out in a
different format and while this is going
on you can see it it's responsive
because the images are small but it's
not exactly superb so let me stop that
and get rid of that guy so back to the
main thread I'm going to open another
window and again select the same export
folder and switch this window to use a
piece red so now both windows are using
P threads and let me just get them both
going and again now we have two
applications bringing the images and
exporting them to different formats what
is basically doing is it exploiting them
to all the formats that are shown here
so this is writing and we see that
there's going to be two folders created
here and let me just stop that and stop
the other one
and you can see what's done here a
couple of these images were loaded up in
all the different formats so once again
you can think of applications like
iphoto and other applications which are
exporting images they can now do these
in the background so that's pretty much
the story for importing and exporting
and where did my window go so my last
demo is so with movies you kind of the
same ideas you want to be able to do
things in the background you want to be
able to do multiple operations in your
application when you're doing things
like exporting movie so again i have an
application that called a threads export
movie and i can select whether i want to
use the main thread or pthread in this
case i'm selecting a movie using the
main thread and here's the movie and as
you have a mark Sun once again and now
I'm going to export and oh I did that
earlier today no worries so let me take
the settings I'm going to pick Sinopec's
nice and fast it's thread safe so now
i'm exporting this movie to sinha pack
and you can see it's taking quite some
time and while it's doing this thing I
can't do anything with the application
not very very good user experience so
let's just wait for this to be it so
what we're going to then do is when to
switch this and be able to do at our
background thread and when you're doing
that the application will be responsive
so let's switch this guy to be on a P
thread and I'm going to open a new
window it's time i'm going to select a
long version of andrew and again it's
using AP thread so let's export this guy
test move yes replace lat and cinna
packs the settings are good so I'm going
to start exporting that while I'm doing
that I'm going to go back so it's
responsive and I'm going to go an export
test to move and replace that one and
again i'm going to use tuna packed so
you can see that i'm able to do that
export it just for fun
I'm going to open a new window like
Andrew and play this and just so you can
see what's going on we're able to
actually export two different movies and
play one of the same movie by the same
time so basically well be threaded
rendering and multi-threaded transcoding
in QuickTime six core thank you thank
you guys thanks a lot perfect thank you
Tim so Tim gets to show you all the good
news I get to tell you about the bad
news what's the bad news bad news is
some components are not thread-safe even
if we could make every component that we
ship on quicktime in panther threadsafe
quick down is an extensible system and
users can install third-party components
and they might be last year's components
they may not be thread-safe so we're
going to have to cope with this fact
that we have thread-safe code and thread
unsafe code in the system when you do a
high level operation in QuickTime that
may be like opening a movie and signed
up to display it or converting an image
from one file format to another that can
involve maybe a dozen lower level
components and often you don't know
which components you're going to use
until you actually try and do it so that
means that some media files and some
convert some conversions cannot be
safely performed from background threads
and your application is going to have to
cope with finding that out dynamically
now a bad a bad way for your application
to find out dynamically would be for it
to crash at random on users machines a
better way is for it to get some kind of
message so the new rule is for
applications to create threads to call
quick time is you have to call this API
to say from this thread please don't let
me open any non thread-safe components
it's a component manager call it's in
core services since the cs prefix and
it's in Panther
if the component manager is about to
open a component and it notices the
component is not thread-safe then it
will return it won't open the component
because even the open call might do
things that are unsafe and instead it
will return this error code and that
error code is likely to propagate back
through other api's to you and if you
receive that error from any API in quick
time then you need to cope with that and
shift the work over to the main thread
in the Panther seed there's a mixture of
thread safe and non threadsafe
components and you can see some of those
on this chart others you'll have to work
out for yourself you can test that by
checking the component thread safety
flag just with fine mix component or get
component in folds it's a flag to find
in the component manager header file so
the most important still image formats
are the ones we've gone and made the
thread safe first mag paint is not not
because we hate mac paint it brings a
smile to all of our faces the real
reason is so that you have some
well-defined test cases for exercising
the migration feature if you should use
the components that are thread safe to
exercise code like Tim destroy it didn't
demonstrated but you should use the
components that are on the right to
exercise your code so as to make sure
that it's safe even if you encounter
media that's supported by components
that aren't thread safe in some
situations you're going to want to move
a QuickTime object from one thread to
another thread now with graphics
importance in graphics exporters you can
manage that with locking that you
perform on your own just make sure that
it's only being called from one thread
of the time but movies are kind of
special because of the way that they
work movies need to know which thread
they belong to at any given time so
there's a pair of AP is that you call to
detach the a movie from one thread and
then to attach it to another thread
a bunch of QuickTime api's lets you
install callback routines these forward
to several categories there are some
that have always been called back from
funny threads that hasn't changed but
there are other ones that in general get
called back from whatever thread is
doing the work now in the past that was
always the main thread but now you might
move that work to another thread and if
you do you need to take care with your
callbacks and rethink whether they're
actually thread safe as well in
particular you should take care with
your progress callbacks don't just call
set control value to adjust the progress
slider because that could cause the
progress labs to be redrawn and like I
said earlier we've header file say that
the component managers the control
manager and the dialog manager are not
thread-safe and that could cause quality
Emily calling set control value although
we think about it it's just setting a
value it actually would cause quite a
lot of code to be run in order to draw
that and it may not always be
immediately obvious that the code that
you're running is not thread-safe it
thread safety bugs can be nicely tricky
and hard to reproduce and it's better to
be safer than sorry if you're a
developer who writes QuickTime
components good for you please make the
next version of your components red safe
and when you do that you should set the
thread safety flag on your component
it's just a component flag in the global
space what kind of things you need to do
in your component to make it thread safe
and what kind of things you need to do
in your application to make sure your
thread safe well a bunch of that
plumbing that I've talked about in
beneath quick time here are some good
examples it's now safe to create G
worlds and drawing them from dream to
threads it's now safe to open and close
components from background threads it's
safe to resolve aliases it's safe to
create and manipulate handles from
threads in order to make that work
safely we made the
what was previously a global error
variable for the memory manager memory
we made that from a global variable into
a per thread variable so the area you
get back your code you get back from
from an API call on one thread one
interfere with the API call you make on
another threat you may have read advice
saying stop using handles use malloc
instead and there's a little bit of
confusion about that if you're using new
handle to allocate private data
structures inside your application then
it's a good idea to examine those and
see if you can switch them over to use
malloc or kallik instead if they never
change size that might be the right
thing to do because malik is faster on
mac OS 10 handle the handle
implementation is built on top of it and
it has to maintain some extra
information that isn't necessary for
some elekid color it has to maintain the
master pointer blocks for example
however we use handles in quick time and
in the alias manager and so forth as a
part of our dialogue of our API we have
over 480 is that pass handles around in
quick time and they're not going away so
your use of handles if you're using it
for those purposes is obviously the
right thing to do there are some other
managers and ap is that won't be
becoming thread-safe the resource
manager ap is involve a global state
called the resource chain it's a list of
open resource files and effectively it's
an implicit parameter passed to most of
the resource manager ap is and as such
it's not thread-safe however the
one-shot component manager calls that
getcomponent resources such as
getcomponent resource and get component
public resource getcomponent public
resource list these guys are thread safe
so for example in your component if you
come and thing that happens in image
decompressor components is that they
need to get the CDC I resource to answer
the question in get codec info you fill
in this codec info slab and a way that
often this has been done is by calling
open a resource file get get resource
and close a resource file
because those API is nickel eight the
resource chain they're not safe to do
instead you can use a one-shot call
getcomponent resource and that is
actually safe and that's what we
recommend you do inside your gate code
again phone call there are the examples
of this in other component pipe another
common practice in components has been
to have some shared global state that
shared between confirmed instances and
generally people would use the component
rest call retcon as a way of storing
where the state was now when all
components were used on the same thread
and memory was scarce on your Macintosh
LLC it was a good idea because you
wanted to save memory however if you
want your component to be used by
multiple threads at once it's now a bad
idea and it's time to upgrade that code
now if you really need to share dynamic
state between components and those
component instances might be used by
multiple threads then you need to pick
up whatever pthread library or MP
library you api you'd like to use and
use some kind of protection mechanism to
coordinate that some kind of locking on
the other hand if you are doing if
you're using shared Global's for
constant tables and maybe allocating
them once and then hanging on to them
later on then the best thing you can do
is to turn take those tables generate
some source code to build those tables
label it as const and just build it and
put it in your executable it might seem
a little bit eager or a little bit weird
but it is actually a better thing to do
for a number of reasons if your data is
constant and you tell a compiler here is
a big constant array then instead of
putting it in a place in private memory
to one application it'll put it in the
read-only section of the executable
which for a eunuch see reasons is called
the text segment I don't understand that
history but this is the same place where
your executable code is and the nice
thing about that code is that it can be
shared between multiple applications so
as well as sharing
these tables between multiple instances
of a component inside one application
these are shared between multiple
instances of multiple of components
across applications that stuff needs
only to be resident in physical memory
once and even better when those met
women if that memory needs to be pushed
out for paging reasons it doesn't need
to be written back to the disk it
doesn't need to take up space and swap
files because it's read-only and so the
colonel knows that it can bring it back
anytime at once just by mapping it back
from from the read-only file so that's
the best thing to do in cleaning up your
code in that area so to summarize the
thread safety part of this talk we're
giving you the opportunity to make your
applications more responsive and more
powerful by doing work in background
threads in return your part of the
bargain is that you need to structure
your code so that it will cope with
legacy non threadsafe components
component developers please make a
component thread safe so that the
application developers can take
advantage of them and this is a panther
only feature now there's one thing I
haven't met we have mentioned on the
slide which is that we have a seed if
the opportunity to secede some of you
and we have set up a mailing list
website instead of an address that you
can send malsu to request involvement
which is QT thread seed at apple com
that email address is going to be around
just for next week so you should send
email to us in the next week I have some
reminder cards you should come to me
after the session and I'll give you a
reminder card and you can take it back
and arrange to tell us what you're going
to do and we can see if we can see you
so now I'd like to hand things over to
me so if you've been asleep through the
multi threading part of the talk it's
time to wake up again we're going to
talk about cook times integration with
color think and I want to begin this by
taking a sip of water
so let's start with a jog and update the
QuickTime has a P is for drawing still
image files and we have a P is for
writing still image files we talked
about those earlier their graphics
importers and graphics exporters color
thing provide services for matching
colors between profiles if you haven't
heard of these terms a profile describes
how pixel values relate to the colors we
see it's a mathematical model of this
relationship different devices like
cameras printers scanners and monitors
they each have different profiles it
turns out that the relationship between
a pixel value stored in a some kind of
buffer and the color you end up seeing
is going to be different from each of
these different kinds of devices and
often for different individual devices
color matching the big thing that color
thing provides color matching is hands
leading pixel values to compensate for
the differences between profiles so that
you see the same color so many kinds of
still image files have different ways of
embedding color singh profiles and part
of the graphics importer and graphics
eight exporter API since QuickTime 40
has been affordances to read these
profiles and to write these profiles and
new files but that was pretty much all
we provided to draw an image with color
matching you'd had to write some extra
code and to preserve a profile when
converting between one image format in
another you had to write a little bit of
extra code it wasn't much but because
color Fink has often been viewed as a
pro feature applications that didn't
view themselves as pro imaging
applications often didn't spend that
effort and this meant that the results
are patchy and even non pro users a
beginning to notice this and start to
get a little bit tetchy about the fact
that this picture they've got doesn't
the same everywhere
so here's what you had to do in order to
draw an image using a graphics in Portal
with color matching you'd get a graphics
importer for the file you'd draw it into
an off-screen G world or buffer you'd
get the color thing profile by making
the call on the graphics importer and
then you choose some destination profile
often a generic RGB profile then you
create a color world which is a color
sync API and then you would match which
means actually performing the
translation it match from the G world to
another G world and then copy that to a
window this is a little bit more work
and if you really cared you probably did
it but it will still some work if you
wanted to preserve a profile that wasn't
quite such a big deal you had to get it
from the importer and set it on the
exporter and you know in QuickTime 40
this doesn't seem like such a big deal
for people to have to do but if you
didn't do it then you lost some kind of
important information and people who are
relying on that as part of their process
or people who just were messing around
with some images could become a little
bit unhappy if they lost that so here's
what we're doing in Panther graphics
importers will now draw using color
matching by default and we'll use the
CMYK to RGB conversion that color singh
provides by default because it looks
better than what we were doing which was
somewhat naive furthermore when you
convert image formats using graphics
exporters we will preserve the profile
we can only do this if you are plugging
in a graphics imported directly into a
graphics exporter or using some other
mechanism that lets us or automatically
detect the profile and push it through
if you draw into some off-screen G world
and then export out that off-screen G
world the G world is not tagged other
kinds of things like CD images and
bitmap context in core graphics ah but
the quick tour equivalents are not so we
can help when we can help otherwise you
may have to do some work still yourself
but this is what you do now in order to
draw an image using color matching you
just draw and we will draw a generic RGB
if you haven't told
do anything else will go and call color
sink and I might as well show you so
let's go to demo one Wow the exports
finished so all of the sample code that
Tim showed you earlier and the sample
code that I'm showing you now is
available but because it's a panther the
school requires a panther api's you have
to go to the Apple Developer connection
site and login so you go to connect our
com login and then if you look under
download software and then the name of
the developers conference then you'll
find a bunch of stuff there's more stuff
each day and here is I'm going to show
you an application that you could be
playing with if you'd learn that I
because it's an image of application you
drop images on and they get drawn i
called it drop draw that's the kind of
an imaginative person i am i mentioned
the CMYK rendering because this we have
had substantial complaints about and
previously feedback forum if i have
turned off this flag use color think
matching to pretend that we're back in
jaguar and this is what you get this is
a CMYK tiff file it's a picture of a
palm tree and and it is recognizably a
palm tree but if you are a photographer
you probably wouldn't be very happy with
that if it was a sort of photograph you
taken this is what it looks like if
you're using the color sync CMYK to RGB
conversion and it looks a whole lot
better you can see more depths of detail
in the shadows and the waterless looks
less radioactive
so this is now what you'll get by
default out of if you're destroying
using QuickTime that's kind of nice but
because you're drawing using graphics
importers there's all these other
features that we give you like we give
you the ability to crop and masterworks
this is a cropping using source
extraction in source space you can apply
a rotation matrix do that rotate the
image we can you can clip we can give it
a clipped region and there's a fairly
complicated clip region we can do them
all the obvious thing to do there we go
so CMYK images look a lot better and you
can still do all of the things that you
used to be able to do with graphics
importers we've made this we've
introduced this feature in those
orthogonal away as we can the difference
between unmatched and matched images is
a bit more subtle when you come to other
to RGB images and and there we can be
forgiven for thinking that there wasn't
much of a deal if you look at this image
this is a picture that Kemba risk and
took on holiday he says that he was on
safari it's billy hard to tell whether
he was in a zoo but will take probably
to him it here's a picture of some wild
beast the in looks it looks great you
know if I got a bug report tank look how
bad you made by image draw I wouldn't
believe that until maybe I saw what it
looked like side by side with the
matched image and you know if if you saw
this image if you were there in person
and saw the animal and you know that it
looked browner then you'd be unhappy if
it wasn't that round but i think this i
think it even looked area
here's another example this one this
one's pretty good here's a picture of a
lion and here's the same line with color
thank matching and that looks a whole
lot sexier ones much more romantic
picture of a lion so the photographer's
side of this is look how bad these
things look this is this is terrible the
programmer who you know isn't the photo
photographer doesn't know what they're
complaining about but in fact it's
something so sorry a professional who's
really going to care about this I think
anyone who's really getting into the
photography once their images to look
like they were it's a otherwise you feel
it's your your memory of the event was a
little bit the face but the problem is
if you only see one of these how do you
know woody did the right thing so coming
back to slide we've got this problem how
do you know whether it's right or wrong
could you pick if you only saw one of
these did you pick the right one I'm not
sure that I could so there's a bit of a
problem for developers and
the color think team has come up with a
good solution they've created some files
with special profiles it turns out that
people have discovered that you can use
color sync matching because it does all
of this color space conversion you can
use that for doing explicit image
adjustment you can say make the thing
that's a bit blue or green make the sky
blue that kind of adjustment and people
use it for doing kinds of color
correction on purpose not just to make
things look the same and they've created
some image files that have embedded
profiles that do a whole lot of changing
in fact they switch the colors red green
and blue around they all switch them
around and then they make one of them
vanish so the image at the top is what
it looks like if you don't do any color
matte color mad matching and I don't
know if you can read it it says the
embedded test profile is not used and is
not double matched but the second one
where the text has gone green is if you
do the correct compensation using color
sink or something else and it has
switched the colors around and the first
word not has vanished because of this
special profile and so it says the
embedded test profile is used and not
double matched and should the
compensation of the transformation
between these profiles be applied again
then you'll find the image at the bottom
which is turned red and the word not has
vanished and now it says it is double
mashed and but this is all coming from
the same image file so to work out
whether you're doing the right thing or
the wrong file you can just drag this
into your much into your application so
it's a couple of this these image files
are also available if you go to connect
at apple com there's these images of
trick profiles we've got a bunch of
different image formats here and I can
go into my little application so there's
one which always looks blue because it
doesn't actually have a profile it's
there as a baseline it's there if you
want to create other image formats by
taking the profile out of one of the
other images so here's a gift and here's
the test text the embedded test profile
is not used and let's make it be used
and look it's used whoo so we've got a
bunch of images here I'll turn off that
one to show you that they all work so
this is in my application which since
you haven't downloaded the sources to
you don't know what I've actually doing
anything very fancy but I can show you
in a few other applications that this is
is really a widespread effect and we can
make sure the things that are doing the
right thing the finders preview here you
can see that the finder is displaying
these with matching the finder does not
call a color thing to do this stuff
here's another application that doesn't
call color think as far as I can tell
which told me it didn't you say morning
and I believe him bbedit actually lets
you open the images and movies I think
well you go to there's an option in the
preferences to do this try this for the
copy see if this one works oh did up
here we are okay so here's an image in
bbedit in the preferences here there's a
choice whether you can what you want to
display images using QuickTime and even
open movies kind of interesting for a
text editor but I've heard it doesn't
suck so
if your applications like bbedit and
it's just calling the graphics importer
so this is already working for you
another apple application but not one
that you think of as an imaging
application is iTunes itunes actually
does call traffic supporters I have it
on good authority state they use
graphics importers to draw the album
artwork so I can just drag my image file
in and there we go and be playing in the
background really very 80's song
should get your g 5 upgrade today okay
what if your application already does
color fig matching well some of you
saying oh my god my application already
does this is he broken it and some of
you are probably saying what's the
problem well you don't apply that color
singh image adjustment twice that would
be a bad idea because then you'd
overcompensate and the photographers
would be unhappy again so it's difficult
for you might be concerned if you have
already have an application the good
news is that we did think of this and we
do maintain binary compatibility with
applications that are already calling
graphics and folders and doing the
matching themselves as we showed before
the way we do this is a little bit
tricky the graphics important Owl Eyes
well it tells you the profiles that it's
going to match to when you ask you what
the profile and better than in the image
file is so now if it's going to draw the
image matched to generic RGB it'll tell
you when you are say what's the color
thing profile of this image it'll tell
you oh it's generic RGB and that means
that if you then match again to generate
RGB color sink will say that's a no op
these are the same image for the same
profile and so the image will still only
have been matched once it's worth if you
have an application that does this it's
worth checking that this is the case
because if you grabbed that profile
ahead of time and store that somewhere
else or if you go through some other
path that isn't quite this simple then
it's possible that there might be a
situation in which you did match twice
if you get an erroneous double match but
you can easily detect that case and work
out how to fix it by using those image
files which as I said are up on the ADC
connect side
on the other hand if you just want to
tell us Doug do color matching I'll do
it instead we have an API to do that
that's what we were using to turn off
things and pretend we're on Jaguar it's
just setting a flag on the graphics
importer and since it's just a flag it's
safe to do that on all the way back to
click x 40 in fact in the Panther feed
that you have received automatic color
management only happens when you draw
images it doesn't happen in the utility
api's for getting images as pick handles
or picture files or saving them as
quicktime images we also have not yet
done anything to modify importing still
images or sequences of still images as
movies if you're a graphics imported
developer you need to opt in to get this
feature because you need to enable the
code that sets that returns a different
profile from gate kalafina profile it's
not very hard that i'm not going to go
into it here if you want to talk to me
about it I'll be downstairs in
Sacramento which is not up 80 i'll be in
sacramento tomorrow morning and so all
other people on the ICM team so we are
making color management the default
because we think that it's a better user
experience not just for pro customers
but for all of them we're also making a
strong effort to preserve binary
compatibility because we think that's
also pretty important user experience so
one more thing from me I want to tell
you about a couple of new API is in
quick time to help integrate with quartz
2d so we have a new API that's in the
Panther seed to create a CG image from
an image file and this is great if you
don't want to draw that into a CG
context this was requested by a bunch of
people if you don't know what a CG
context is I encourage you to learn go
to some court sessions pick up a book
one tip though quartz uses a floating
point coordinate space so if you want to
send to that image somewhere
you should be careful to round down the
coordinates when you're dividing some
number by 2 or else you might draw that
image at a half pixel offset and did you
get a blurry image so round is your
friend floor is your friend explore as a
function we've also introduced an API to
allow you to provide a CG image as the
input to a graphics export operation and
so using this you can take the smooth
images that you've rendered by quartz
and write the amount of Mac Paint files
if you like so that's it for me i will
have these little reminder cards if
you're interested in writing
applications that take advantage of the
threads a thread multi-threaded
abilities please come see me in and i'll
give you one of these cards and then
you'll remember that you have to send an
email to us go to the quicktime labs
downstairs it's not very obvious you
have to look for the word sacramento and
then you have to know that that's where
you have to go but there's a whole bunch
of QuickTime engineers there it's great
great opportunity to meet the team and
ask for help with your tricky questions
and I'd like to introduce John Michell
bill to he's going to talk to you about
another interesting feature that's up on
the board
hi so let's switch the toilet from
topeka right now from all this place FC
color think and what you do support in a
quick and help enter and let me talk
about audio video started change before
I do that let's take a look at the
concrete time everything model today
today we have movie time which is driven
by time basis and those time basis are
driven by clogs basically time basis as
a definition of rate they can stop the
time that it can move the time forward
or back for all whether the clerk
provide real-time clock information
which mean that the assign is always
moving so this clogs can be provided by
external hardware device today such as
audio or video if your movie is not
attached to any of these devices to
examine some we will use cpu clock but
the fact that we time is capable of
using this external clock to drive the
time length of the movie let us play
audio and video within think of a long
period of time the issue we have today
is that this model make the assumption
that the rate of the time base can
change right away and by making this
assumption what kind of trouble can we
run into well if you take the example of
video Clerk which is lower there
assuming this video clerk is currently
driving the time base of your movie when
your application as good chance to start
this movie basically internally we're
going to turn around and change the rate
of the standard and assume is going to
change right now but actually this
external device cloth we really would
like to see the rain changing not right
now but on the edge of the video thing
because it will be totally incapable of
outputting the first sample before this
age well if you look at this growing the
arrow is pointing and when the movie
time is already started changing so the
audio track has already seen the time
moving into the second arrow when the
video one will be talking not possible
for it to display any sample before the
third arrow so by making this assumption
that the rice can change we interview to
get a tiny gap between audio and video
devices today and we're not talking
about second or minutes in this gap this
is what a couple of minutes ago today
but when you are in the high-end audio
and video space then we don't care about
what the scale of younger trees they
want to see any capital so what do we
need to do to fix this issue and get rid
of this gap well quick 10 need to be
able to understand this club constraints
and as soon as we understand this
constraint will be able to provide some
Headroom before the right of the movie
change so do we make that happen in
center well we've introduced two new ID
is on the clock component side the first
one is clogged yet time for a change and
basically this API we used to ask the
clock what time is it and say what will
change the time now what we're going to
do we're going to say well we are about
to change the rate from this value to
this new one tell us what's the best
time to change this value the other API
on the clock component side as well is
club get red change constraint which
basically let quicktime knows that the
clock does that such a constraint there
is also intend on this new time the API
could get time or change status so this
this one you'll be able to call it after
you change the rate of the movie in
global you will be able to tell when the
time will restart moving there is also
one you bitch which has been added to an
existing API call get time-based
statutes it's called time base rate
changing that we were telling you that
where you are winning this gap I was
just talking about so what does that
mean for your application well if you
use high level movie toolbox API you
don't channel that is all that you need
to be aware that the time this red can
be done the room by the time is not
moving and actually the slide is talking
about clutch and this me out of sync
with my slightly this should be real
time babe if you use low level time this
API directly outside of the movie
context you might have more work to do
you probably need to check for this new
flag return by to get time date status
because it could generate some using
behavior you never seen before so the
last epi added intenta is a movie to box
AP angkor get movie right change
constraints so before you start a movie
can query the minimum and maximum delay
that you will see when you were to
change the right of your movie so let's
switch to the demo machine to show you
what this stuff is about so of course i
am trying to demo something which is
showing a millisecond delay when you
start a movie so that's not really
something easy so in order to have you
reimbursed and what's going on i
modified the building audio clock on
this machine just because i can and i
advertised the constraint of 27 rather
than realistic constraint which is about
a couple of minutes agone in real
hardware devices so you'll be able to
see what I'm talking about when the
movie when the movie race is changing
the other thing i have added to this
stone on quicktime player either custom
panel which is shown you a couple of
thing the first one is the current rate
of the movie and the two other permits
are basically are using the the new
Europeans was talking about the first
one is asking the movie to box with the
constraining when your birth to stop and
this is the to second I was talking
about building to this sake audio device
clutch and the other one will basically
money tell the time changing after ice
change the rate of the movie so the
player has not been modified from all
that has been bona fide in this demo is
the clock component which is used and
because this movie contain both another
one
video track by deform Christian will
pick up the the gog o clock to tick the
time of this movie so when I'm about to
play this movie you'll see that the
movie controller believe that the race
has changed while we're going to see
that the rate actually will change in in
the future so if i do that nothing is
happening and you see the slider going
down and let me do that again so you can
understand what's going on everybody
believed the movie had started and the
clock is driving the 10 days of the
movie so even if the constraint is
applied on the audio track actually the
video is going to wait patiently for
this time to start playing to show that
Apple expert has over the cell yeah idea
so to show you that it's really coming
from the from the audio clock what I can
do I can extract the video track from
the original movie and if I just show
you the panel the everything tunnel
again will see that there is no more
constraint because quicktime is not
using the built-in audio clock anymore
and if I just play this movie it does
behave at any movie today which mean
that the video can starboard away and
there is no nothing happening that the
rate change instantaneously if I strike
just the audio track of the original
movie then one more time because
quicktime is using the building of your
clothes it's going to wait before the
stuff happen are you now or have you
ever used with you go with them I just
experiment I have thought but all i
would have loved for now and that's all
other times i am as well to talk about
the services of secant enter thank you
so ye mo e mo is not here Jia with
hearing coming up to rapid decision okay
so now for the ending of this session
we're going to talk about what is still
available for you sessions and we have
for tomorrow we have quicktime streaming
server programming and we have a
quicktime alternative programming
environments on friday but the thing
that when i highlight is the feedback
forum tomorrow is a 335 remember
correctly and the important thing here
is that it is scheduled to be in
haight-ashbury and we have moved it to
marina because we think that we need
more room for all the QuickTime people
who are at the conference so high
actually was going to be just too small
for we expect you all to be there in
this is enough to film and I actually
already so please take note of that we
will be modifying all the displays
around the conference I'm sorry that's
an excellent time actually to have a
conference on Friday but it will be the
morning of friday okay does my contact
information if some happens to run out
of his cards you can write to me and
i'll make sure that he gets the
information also more information this
is all the sample code that we have been
talking about here is already available
for you to download from the ABC side
there is also new quicktime
documentation available that you can go
and download we have every time we are
trying to catch up with the new api's
and make that available to you so you as
attendees of the conference can go today
and downloaded we
we'll be making it available to all
developers as sponsor goes out to more
people at this moment only you have it
for documentation you can go and get the
new stuff right now more information and
thread tester drop draw those are
available from the download site already
and the quick and LA we have mentioned
this many times for API developers this
is an important opportunity for you to
talk directly with the QuickTime
engineering team and have any questions
or consultation that you want to make
answer we still have the rest of this
afternoon and tomorrow and Friday for
you